+++
title = 'Eighth - deploy a function'
date = 2024-01-30T17:37:45-08:00
draft = false
+++
> _Please attempt to deploy a function on our service. This need not be complicated. It could be "Hello World". Note that failure to deploy is not failing the exercise! Whether you have trouble or not, please describe what you experienced and how you attempted to troubleshoot any issues you encountered._

I chose to deploy a "Hello world" function in Go. I used the [tutorial in the docs](https://docs.netlify.com/functions/lambda-compatibility/?fn-language=go#synchronous-function-format-3) for a Golang Lambda function, and it failed with that same _Build failed due to a user error: Build script returned non-zero exit code: 2_ error. The build log told me that I needed to install the Go module in the folder of my function, which I did on my local machine. I then pushed it to github, and the build failed again, this time because the system expected a Go version number like `1.23` but instead got a version of `1.21.1`. So I edited the version number in the Go module file, pushed to github, and the function built successfully! But I could not invoke it. A quick google pointed me to the AWS Lambda docs, which made me realize I needed to add authentication. After digging through the Netlify support forums and some moderate googling, I realized I'd need to spend a good amount more time digging into authentication before I could get this Hello World working. Even `authentication=none` was going to be pretty complex to set up, so I left it for now, despite the fact that, though the function is deployed, it cannot be invoked.