+++
title = 'Ninth - security reaction'
date = 2024-01-30T17:38:41-08:00
draft = true
+++
> _We understand you don't know anything about our internal procedures at this stage, but we want you to explain at a high level how you'd react to this situation: You receive a report of a severe security issue on www.netlify.com. You can't immediately confirm the report, so what steps might you take to investigate or substantiate the report? What might you say to the reporter, even though we haven't confirmed their assertion yet, that will instill confidence that our business is very concerned about security? You believe there is a reasonable chance the report is correct and the problem is very large and impactful. How might you escalate?_

If I received a report of a severe security issue on www.netlify.com, I'd ask the reporter to walk me through as clear step-by-step instructions of how they found the issue. I'd document this as precisely as possible in ticket or other system of record, then ask my peers if they had seen or heard anything like this before. If this is a serious security issue, I'd want to move quickly, but try not to cause undue internal alarm. I'd check any external or internal documentation we had about this, and I would reach out to any Subject Matter Experts on the team if the search came up empty. I'd use the internal support team as a sounding board if I couldn't duplicate, and ultimately would run this up to the on-duty lead or manager. I would present my case to the manager, linking the thorough customer report and internal chats I'd had around this issue. If necessary, I would put together an internal document which compiled the customer report and all of the internal troubleshooting and verification work I'd already done. 

I'd want to carefully assure the customer also, thanking them for their report, telling them that Netlify takes security reports like this quite seriously and that I personally am doing all that I can to get this properly escalated quickly. I'd explain to the customer that security issues need to be treated with care and though I may not be able to give them full details on what is happening, that I will keep them in the loop as much as possible, and ask that they keep an eye out for a response from me in case we need more information from them. 

When discussing this issue with the manager on duty, I'd be as clear as I could about my assessment of the impact of this security issue, and, if I thought it appropriate, encourage them to alert the appropriate Operations and Engineering personnel so that this could be resolved hastily. Security issues need to be handled quickly and with a minimum of fuss--using carefully worded alerts which trigger things to get done without causing panic. I'd make sure my documentation was as clear and thorough as possible so that the Ops/Eng group can hit the ground running to get this resolved.