+++
title = 'Sixth - A customer writes in to Support saying simply that their “site won’t build”'
date = 2024-01-30T16:57:43-08:00
draft = false
+++
> _A customer writes in to Support saying simply that their “site won’t build”. You have access to their build logs, and there you see this error: Build failed due to a user error: Build script returned non-zero exit code: 2. You have no more information than this and the site’s source repository is private so you cannot test the build yourself. How would you troubleshoot this issue? What steps would you take? Also, please compose your best customer-facing first response._

I have actually run into this error myself! I searched the support forums and I was also not the first person to run into this error, it seems to come up with some regularity. After reading through a number of the support forum topics and also reading through some of the linked articles in the support documentation, my general understanding is that this error is typically related to warnings in the build, which are treated as build-stopping errors when Continuous Integration is turned on (which it is by default). My first steps would be to see if any warnings were popping up in the build logs that point to simple solutions, like missing or misnamed directories--this often seems to be the case when the reason for the failed build is "user error". I would also advise the user to check the CI settings or override the CI variable in the build settings.

## Customer Response:

> Hi! Thanks for reaching out. I would also be frustrated if a build that was working on my machine told me it had failed due to "user error"! Usually when we see this Build Failed error, it's due to a missing or misnamed directory, or one that lacks the correct permissions. It looks like your source repository is private, so I can't verify what's missing, but there should be some warnings further up in the build logs that point to the issue. Another thing we see pretty frequently is that since the Continuous Integration setting defaults to `true`, warnings that don't cause build problems on your local machine are enough to stop the build on Netlify. [This troubleshooting tip in the docs](https://docs.netlify.com/configure-builds/troubleshooting-tips/#build-fails-on-warning-message) gives some instructions on how to override the CI variable in the Build Command, which often bypasses this issue. Most of the time, one of these two things resolves this issue, but please don't hesitate to reach back out if you try this and you're still running into this or any other issue.